[somber music playing]
- [chain rattling]
- [footsteps shuffling]
[soldier] Come on. This way!
[Raphtalia sighs]
[sighs]
[no audible dialogue]
[gasps]
[soldier] What’s the holdup?
Keep moving.
[scoffs]
You should know that you’re
going to be held here
until we turn you over
to Master Kyo.
[thinking] Master Naofumi...
I bet you’re furious
right now, aren’t you?
[no audible dialogue]
But don’t worry.
No matter how bad things get,
I’ll endure it
if it means getting
to see your face again.
[gate slams]
[lock clicks]
[sighs]
[groans]
[energy warbles]
[gasps]
My power is...
- [man] It’s useless.
- [gasps]
From what I’ve learned, the more
you try to use your power here,
the more
it just gets sucked away.
[sighs]
And since you’re stuck
with that tiny body,
I doubt you could
force the door open.
L’Arc’s here.
And Therese and even Glass.
How in the world
do you know all of our names?
Wait, that face
and the color of your hair.
Could it be...
There’s no way. Raphtalia?
Huh?
[Raphtalia gasps]
[L’Arc] Oh, I see it now.
That is you,
isn’t it, Raphtally?
So how did you
end up in this world?
And why are you
so much smaller now?
- [Raphtalia grunts]
- Huh?
What’s wrong?
I haven’t forgotten.
You’re Master Naofumi’s--
[grunts]
No, you’re all of our enemies.
[gasps]
Yeah. You’re right about that.
- [Raphtalia] But...
- [all gasp]
I think we’re still under
a truce until we avenge Ost.
And while
you may not care for that,
I know you want
to put a stop to Kyo.
In order to do that,
we have to get out of here
before all of us
are given up to Kyo.
But I can’t do it alone,
so will you help me?
- [chuckles]
- [laughing]
[Raphtalia sighs]
Now I’m positive.
You’re small, but you’re
definitely Raphtally.
[chuckles] Of course.
We feel the same way,
Raphtalia.
Our goal is
just the same as yours,
to return the Spirit Tortoise
to your world.
However...
What is it?
We made it back home after we
stepped through the portal,
but it was a trap
Kyo set for us,
and that’s how we
ended up here with you.
Interesting.
So you three were sent here
the same way the three of us
were sent
to the Infinite Labyrinth.
- Hmm?
- The Infinite Labyrinth?
You’re joking, right?
That’s where you guys ended up?
But the Infinite Labyrinth
is a temporal prison
that can’t be escaped.
Quiet down there.
Enough talking.
Well, to start,
we should exchange all
the information we have so far.
[rain pattering]
[Glass] She was there
this whole time? Kizuna?
Kizuna was trapped
all by herself
in the Infinite Labyrinth?
How could I
have been so ignorant?
That should have been one
of the places I checked for her.
Well, she’s out now,
and that’s what matters, right?
So Kizuna and your party,
they must be heading to Sikul
as we speak.
I’m sure it’s been incredibly
difficult for Naofumi.
You’re right,
and I’m afraid he might
never forgive me for this.
[gasps] That’s not what...
I could never
thank you enough, Raphtalia...
for bringing Kizuna home.
So we’ll return the favor.
[pants] I promise.
We’ll bring you back to Naofumi.
What’s wrong?
[L’Arc] It’s like
I said earlier.
This place is called
the Prison of Exhaustion.
It has a magic
that constantly drains
and exhausts
those inside of it,
and the guard
preventing our escape
has his power enhanced
with special talismans.
It’s a rough place to be stuck.
[breathing heavily]
It’s worse for Spirits,
because unlike us,
they’re having their
very life drained from them.
I was wondering why they
let you keep your weapons,
but that explains it.
Huh? Yeah, that’s part of it,
but a vassal weapon can’t be
taken from its wielder.
[sighs]
[gasps]
[no audible dialogue]
[Raphtalia] So it’s just
like the Cardinal Weapons?
[panting]
Poor Glass.
She got excited
hearing about Kizuna.
And it just ended up
making her even more exhausted.
We need to hurry
and get out of here.
Hmm...
[gasps]
[Raphtalia] Our abilities
might be weakened,
but we can still
use them, right?
Huh? Yes.
Then I may be able
to do something.
[whistle blowing]
[soldier 2] Escapees!
[tense music playing]
[L’Arc] Color me impressed!
Your illusion magic
is incredible.
Is it? Unfortunately,
it’s all I can do at this level.
[gasps]
They’re gone.
[grumbles]
What the...
Where were you all hiding
a moment ago?
Why aren’t you answering me?!
[gasps] What? My talisman.
[Raphtalia] It worked,
but my abilities
are nothing
compared to Glass’.
[L’Arc] I wouldn’t worry.
she’s in a league of her own.
[Glass] Who do you
think I am, L’Arc?
Where do we go to now?
Isn’t it obvious?
We head to Sikul, of course.
We need to meet up with Kizuna
and the others ASAP.
Couldn’t agree more.
Master Naofumi,
I’m on my way!
Soon I’ll be back.
I’ll be back with you.
[street chatter]
Raphtally said Kizuna’s group
went to Sikul
using Return Dragon Vein,
didn’t she?
That’s probably
the fastest thing for us, too.
Sounds good. However,
we’ll have to travel to Raybul,
since that’s the nearest
dragon hourglass.
Raybul. But what if Kyo
set up a trap for us there?
- [gasps]
- Don’t you worry.
We’re gonna try
and get your level
as high as we can
on the way there,
and on top of that, we’ll be
right here by your side.
That’s right. We’re gonna
get to Sikul together.
[chuckles]
- [stomach grumbles]
- [gasps]
- [both laugh]
- I’m pretty hungry too!
But the guard took all
our stuff back at the prison,
so I’m kinda broke.
Not to mention that people
will get suspicious
if we keep these cloaks on.
You leave me no choice.
- [clothes rustle]
- [both gasp]
[Glass] Where on Earth
were you hiding those?
[groaning]
[gasps]
Here. For you, Raphtally.
Oh, th-thank you.
Sorry. You’d rather
have food, though, right?
[gasps]
It’s not like I’m
starving or anything.
[both] Uh...
[L’Arc] You look
pretty hungry to me.
[Glass] From what
I’ve heard about them,
It seems
that demi-humans in her world
change shape
as they gain levels.
I guess they need
to eat a lot in order to grow.
I’ll have to sell these too.
How many of those do you have?
[music playing]
[monsters growl]
- Hah!
- [roars]
I could be wrong, Raphtally,
but it seems like
you’ve grown a bit already.
You think so? My joints
have been hurting a lot lately.
It’s probably growing pains.
I can tailor your kimono
to fit again,
but we’ll need to buy you
a new weapon.
[groans]
I-It’s okay!
It’s for Raphtalia, after all.
Sorry about this.
[whistle blows]
Sheesh. They’re still at it.
They’re out there
looking for us, aren’t they?
You’re very good at that.
It is a bit embarrassing
to do this in front of you,
seeing as we fought
each other before.
So did you make Kizuna’s?
Huh?
She mentioned to us
that you gave it to her.
Did you tailor it for her too?
Yes, I did.
That explains
why she likes it so much.
That’s good to hear.
I hope you see her soon.
[sighs] And, um...
you too.
I think she meant to say...
she hopes
you see the kiddo soon.
[nervous chuckle]
[chuckles]
Thanks!
[street chatter]
That’s where
the dragon hourglass should be.
Looks like something’s
going on here.
They’re deciding who will wield
the Katana Vassal Weapon.
There’s a candidate for it!
And it’s about time too.
A new wielder
for a vassal weapon?
Seriously?
In case we needed one more thing
to worry about, right, L’Arc?
Hmm?
Seems as though
a Vassal Weapon Wielder,
like myself or L’Arc,
will be selected
in this country any minute now.
It’s a serious matter.
The mere presence of a Hero
can tilt the military balance
between nations.
I don’t understand how it’s
a problem for L’Arc, though.
Come on! Let’s go check it out.
As a fellow
Vassal Weapon Wielder,
it only makes sense
I take a look.
[crowd murmuring]
Gather around!
We will now choose the holder
of the Katana Vassal Weapon!
[cheering]
While many adventurers
have journeyed from afar
to try their hand at drawing
the legendary vassal weapon,
none of them have succeeded.
But it is not a test of might,
as the vassal weapon
will only heed the call
of its rightful bearer!
[murmuring]
It’s looks like
they’re having a big party.
That’s pretty much what it is.
It’s no wonder
they’re celebrating.
Raybul has held
this weapon for ages.
It’s not just important
for Raybul’s military,
but also the people,
because it’s become
a symbol of their faith.
By the end of this,
someone here will become a hero.
It’s said wielding it grants you
wealth, fame, and power.
But drawing it’s
not up to the candidate.
As a matter of fact,
it’s quite the opposite.
The vassal weapon
decides who its holder is.
I wonder who it’s chosen
to be its wielder.
Candidate,
make your way forward!
If you truly desire the katana,
then draw it
before our very eyes!
[crowd murmuring]
[gasps]
Him again.
[man] It’s Kazuki!
[man 2] But will he be
the one to wield it?
[grumbles]
[gasps]
- [murmuring]
- [woman] What happened?
[L’Arc gasps] Huh?
Huh?
[panting]
[soldier] It’s no good.
We lost her.
[soldier 2]
She may have run into a house.
We’ll search them all
if we have to.
[panting]
But how?
Why am I...
This katana...
[winces]
[all gasp]
[groaning]
My slave crest!
Grab that girl at once!
She stole
the vassal weapon from me!
It was never yours
to begin with.
[soldier]
Drop the vassal weapon!
[crowd murmurs]
I can’t! It’s stuck to me!
See? Once you own
a vassal weapon,
you can’t get rid of it.
That’s not important right now!
We should withdraw
from here at once.
[grunts] Let’s go.
[sighs]
Mm.
Uh...
[chuckles]
Raphtalia!
Raphtally! What a fool.
My slave crest,
why did it disappear?
[katana pulses]
[gasping]
What is...
My body...
what is it doing?
- She’s over there!
- [gasps]
[panting]
[yelps]
[bird squawks]
[sentimental music playing]
Master Naofumi...
Filo...
[grunts]
One more time.
I’ll do anything.
I just want to see
Master Naofumi one more time.
I know he might be
upset with me,
and he may never pat my head
again like he used to.
[soldier] This way!
[soldier 2] Go around the back,
and cut her off!
[Raphtalia gasps]
- But still...
- [yelps]
I want to see you again
and apologize.
And if you’d be
so kind to forgive me,
then I’ll stand by your side
and be your sword again
like before.
[gasps]
No, it doesn’t matter
what happens.
You can get mad at me
all you want.
You don’t have to forgive me.
I’ll still fight for you
all the same.
But I don’t want
to just be your sword.
I want to stand
by your side...
[wind blows]
as your equal.
- [woman] Who’s there?
- [gasps]
[gasps] That katana.
Then, you’re
the Vassal Weapon Hero!
- [whistle blows]
- Huh?
Huh?
Come with me.
[Raphtalia gasps] Um...
[gasping]
You can relax.
My clan has been
in service to the Hero
of the Katana Vassal Weapon
for many generations.
This is all a mistake.
I’m not a Hero.
Whether you like it or not,
you are.
The vassal weapon chose you.
That’s proof of it.
[Raphtalia sighs]
You look wonderful, Dame Hero.
[soldier 1] This way!
[soldier 3]
Surround the entire shrine!
It doesn’t hurt anymore.
I can feel my strength
coming back.
Thank you
for giving me this clothing.
Eh?
Please, think nothing of it!
[chuckles]
Farewell.
[music playing]
[soldiers gasp]
Look at her clothes.
She’s the Hero
of the Katana Vassal Weapon!
- [Kazuki] Step aside.
- Huh?
[all gasp]
What’s this?
You think
you’re a Hero already?
Wait, why are you
taller than before?
I don’t want to shed
meaningless blood here.
Leave peacefully,
and you’ll be spared.
[growls] You have some nerve
talking down to me,
you disgusting thief!
That sword belongs to me!
I’m the only one here
who’s worthy of it!
Give the katana back to me,
and I’ll be generous enough
to grant you a painless death.
I apologize for lack
of discipline with my weapon,
but if you don’t move,
I cannot guarantee your safety.
If that’s supposed to be
your way of saying
you might accidentally
kill me, think again!
[running footsteps]
Powder Snow.
[gags]
My magic is...
[gasps]
[laughs]
You demi-humans are pathetic.
All that talk, and not
a scratch to show for it?
- [heavy footsteps]
- [gasps]
[snarling]
[grunts]
[Kazuki] Hmph.
These two friends of mine
are copies of Byakko,
one of the Four Holy Beasts.
Holy Beasts?
Then they’re Guardians,
like the Spirit Tortoise?
To hell
with the Spirit Tortoise!
These two are the product
of all my research
and my loyal servants in combat!
So you’ve resorted to using
the same methods as Kyo?
How dare you say
that asshole’s name to me!
If you want to be
Byakko’s dinner, then so be it!
[roars]
Forgive me.
[gasps]
[bodies thump]
She defeated them.
But that’s impossible.
[Raphtalia] The true
Guardian Beast we fought
was much stronger.
These are an insult
to its strength.
[groans]
We don’t have to fight.
Leave, and you’ll be spared.
[scoffs]
Like I’d run from you!
Very well.
Instant Blade: Mist.
[footstep echoes]
Huh?
[Raphtalia] Don’t move a muscle.
If you do, you’ll end up
like those poor tigers earlier.
[winces]
I’ll heal you!
What are you doing?
Hurry, and go kill her!
We need to get my vassal weapon
before she escapes!
But you heard her, Kazuki.
If you move, you’ll die.
Earning Kyo’s favor
is that important to you?
The opposite! You see,
I’m gonna put one over on him,
and I need the vassal weapon
to do it!
The next time you see Kyo,
tell him
the Shield Hero’s coming
to take revenge for what he did
to the Spirit Tortoise.
Shield Hero? Hold on.
Are you that demi-human kid
who was following him around?
H-Hey, wait up!
Get back here!
That vassal weapon
belongs to me, damn it!
Can’t you see
it was just a mistake
that you ended up with it?
Hey, are you
even listening to me?
Where are you going?!
Get back here!
[music playing]
[winces]
I see.
I used a little
too much power, I guess.
- [heavy footsteps]
- [gasps]
[roars]
[groans]
I can’t move.
[bird squawks]
[gasps]
[roars]
It seems
this is the end for me.
[roars]
Master Naofumi...
I did my best, didn’t I?
Air Strike Shield!
[gasping]
Spiral Strike!
[snarls]
[groans]
It’s no good.
My attack feels weak.
Hunting Skill:
Blood Flower Strike!
Well, that takes care of that.
Thank you, Kizuna.
[giggles]
Raphtalia, we’re here!
Raphtalia!
Rishia, you came. And Filo!
[sentimental music playing]
[gasps]
[singer vocalizing]
Master Naofumi!
I’m sorry. I was...
[gasps]
[Naofumi sighs]
[sighs]
Master Naofumi, everyone,
thank you for rescuing me.
I knew that you’d come.
[Kizuna chuckles]
Wait a sec! Your chest!
Where’s the slave crest
that was on it?
Oh. It suddenly disappeared.
Raphtalia, you’re free.
So does that mean
you’re leaving?
If so--[gasps]
[vocalizing continues]
Master Naofumi,
I’m back home where I belong.
Yeah. Welcome back.